docs/quickstart.rst, before:

Quick Start
===========

In this page we'll go over the basics of using the code and its outputs.

Dependencies
------------

* ``numpy``
* ``healpy``
* ``camb``

XFaster is compatible with Python versions 3.0 and higher.

Installation
------------
After cloning the repo, install xfaster::

    $ python setup.py install

Setting up your data
--------------------

Maps
....

The code requires a certain directory structure for your input maps:

.. code-block:: text

    <data_root>/
    ├── data_<data_type>
    │   ├── <data_subset1>    
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>.fits
    │   ├── <data_subset2> (same filenames as <data_subset1>)
    │   ├── ....
    │   ├── <data_subsetM>
    ├── signal_<signal_type>
    │   ├── spec_signal_<signal_type>.dat
    │   ├── <data_subset1>    
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>_0000.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>_####.fits
    │   │   ├── ...    
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>_0000.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>_####.fits    
    │   ├── ....
    │   ├── <data_subsetM> (same filenames as <data_subset1>)
    ├── noise_<noise_type> (same filenames as signal_<signal_type>)
    ├── masks_<mask_type>
    │   ├── mask_map_<tag1>.fits
    │   ├── ...
    │   ├── mask_map_<tagN>.fits		
    [[optional:]]
    ├── foreground_<foreground_type> (same filenames as signal_<signal_type>
    ├── templates_<template_type>
    │   ├── halfmission-1 (same filenames as data_<data_type>)
    │   ├── halfmission-2 (same filenames as data_<data_type>)
    └── reobs_planck (same filenames as templates_<template_type>, used if sub_planck=True for null tests)

The required types of maps are data, signal simulations, noise simulations, and masks.
Each map should have a tag, which is used consistently across these different map types.
This would typically be a frequency or some subset of detectors.
For example, SPIDER has two tags: ``95`` and ``150``.

Further subsetting of the data, ie., by time splits, is done through use of the ``<data_subset>>`` directories.
These should contain independent subsets of data, as they are used to construct cross-spectra.
For example, SPIDER has four subsets, labeled ``1of4``, ``2of4``, etc, to contain maps from every fourth set of interleaved ten-minute chunks.

For each map tag and for each data subset in your data directory, you must have at least one (but generally at least 100, for reasonable statistics) maps in your signal and noise directories.
These have the same directory structures, but the maps now have additional numerical tags for each realization of randomly generated signal or noise.
The tags don't have to start at 0 or be contiguous-- the code will simply look for any maps in your sim directories that has the same map tag and data_subset as what you've picked for the data and use all of them, unless you set an option to say otherwise.
The signal map directory must also contain a spectrum file containing the :math:`\ell(\ell+1)C_\ell/(2\pi)` spectra used to create the realizations in the directory.
This spectrum in used in computing the transfer function.

One mask is required per map tag.
These files begin with ``mask_map_`` instead of ``map_``.

Optional inputs are described in :ref:`Algorithm<Algorithm: Step by Step>`.

Non-Map Data
............

The other data you'll need to provide are your beam window functions and the band centers of the input maps (if fitting for foregrounds).
These are specified in a config file, an example of which is in `config_example.ini <https://github.com/annegambrel/xfaster/blob/main/example/config_example.ini>`_.

Beams can be specified either with a simple FHWM, if using a Gaussian beam model, or with an ell-by-ell beam window function, stored in a ``.npz`` file.
The ``.npz file`` should contain a dictionary with a key for each map tag.
The beams can be an :math:`\ell` -length vector, or a 3 :math:`\times \ell` - shape array if different beams are desired for Stokes I/Q/U.

Running the code
----------------
An example of a script to run XFaster can be found in `xfaster_example.py <https://github.com/annegambrel/xfaster/blob/main/example/xfaster_example.py>`_.
This script points to where the data lives, the tags used to fill in options in your file structure tree, what config file to use, and lots of other options you can give to the code.
These aren't all the options-- the API reference for :py:func:`xfaster.xfaster_exec.xfaster_run` contains descriptions of all the arguments you might wish to use.

After setting up your config file and setting the options in your submit script, you then need to decide if you're submitting this to a cluster (``xfaster_submit``) or running it in your current environment (``xfaster_run``).
The example script has both options available.
If submitting to a grid, additional submit options are required, and these are included in the arguments passed to ``xfaster_submit``.

Reading the outputs
-------------------
As steps of the algorithm are completed, intermediate outputs are written to disk in the form of ``.npz`` numpy dictionary files.
If a run is interrupted for any reason, it can be restarted from the previously completed checkpoint.
The files written to disk are:

* ``files.npz``

  * All specifiers to indicate which maps files are used

* ``masks.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of the masks

* ``kernels.npz``

  * The :math:`K_{\ell\ell'}` mode-coupling kernels

* ``sims_xcorr.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of signal and noise simulation

* ``beam.npz``

  * The beam window functions, per map

* ``transfer.npz``

  * The filter transfer functions, computed per map

* ``data_xcorr.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of all the data maps

* ``bandpowers.npz``

  * The computed bandpowers

* ``likelihoods.npz``

  * The likelihoods for parameters

For a detailed overview of the various fields contained in each dictionary, see :ref:`Algorithm<Algorithm: Step by Step>`.

Whenever you want to read in some data the XFaster code wrote, you'll want to use the function ``load_and_parse``.
This includes all the files detailed in the list above.
You can then look through keys, where the dictionaries are all structured as ``main field name`` -> ``spectrum type`` -> ``map/cross spectrum``.

In the last category, cross spectra are indicated with a colon, so if I had two maps tagged as ``90`` and ``150`` that I'm inputting the algorithm, the spectrum fields I should find are ``90:90``, ``150:150``, and ``150:90`` (crosses are in alphabetical error, as they are read as strings).
Here, we have the two map auto-spectra first, and then the cross between them.
If there are multiple maps with the same tag but that use different <<data_subsets>> as described in :ref:`Maps<Maps>` above, these will be assigned an additional numerical tag, so you might have something like ``90_0:90_1`` for the cross between map 90 in data_subset1 and data_subset2.

Below, we show how to load up some bandpowers, error bars, and a transfer function.

.. code-block:: python

    import xfaster as xf
    
    bp = xf.load_and_parse("bandpowers_test.npz") # where the majority of useful stuff is
    ee_bin_centers = bp["ellb"]["cmb_ee"] # weighted bin centers
    ee_specs = bp["cb"]["cmb_ee"] # estimated CMB spectra
    ee_errs = bp["dcb"]["cmb_ee"] # estimated CMB error bars
    spec_cov = bp["cov"] # Nspec * Nbin square covariance matrix
    ee_transfer_90_1 = bp["qb_transfer"]["cmb_ee"]["90_1"] # transfer function using the same bins


And that covers the basics!

Commit message:

Adding example script instructions to quickstart

docs/quickstart.rst, after:

Quick Start
===========

In this page we'll go over the basics of using the code and its outputs.

Dependencies
------------

* ``numpy``
* ``healpy``
* ``camb``

XFaster is compatible with Python versions 3.0 and higher.

Installation
------------
After cloning the repo, install xfaster::

    $ python setup.py install

Example Script
--------------
To get started with the code before running it on your data, you can run through the example, described in more detail in the :ref:`Algorithm<Algorithm: Step by Step>` link.
First, generate the small ensemble of maps by running ``make_example_maps.py`` in the ``examples`` directory.
Then, run ``xfaster_example.py``.
This runs XFaster on the example maps, so you can see the step-by-step process and look at the outputs.

Setting up your data
--------------------

Maps
....

The code requires a certain directory structure for your input maps:

.. code-block:: text

    <data_root>/
    ├── data_<data_type>
    │   ├── <data_subset1>
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>.fits
    │   ├── <data_subset2> (same filenames as <data_subset1>)
    │   ├── ....
    │   ├── <data_subsetM>
    ├── signal_<signal_type>
    │   ├── spec_signal_<signal_type>.dat
    │   ├── <data_subset1>
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>_0000.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tag1>_####.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>_0000.fits
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   ├── map_<tagN>_####.fits
    │   ├── ....
    │   ├── <data_subsetM> (same filenames as <data_subset1>)
    ├── noise_<noise_type> (same filenames as signal_<signal_type>)
    ├── masks_<mask_type>
    │   ├── mask_map_<tag1>.fits
    │   ├── ...
    │   ├── mask_map_<tagN>.fits
    [[optional:]]
    ├── foreground_<foreground_type> (same filenames as signal_<signal_type>
    ├── templates_<template_type>
    │   ├── halfmission-1 (same filenames as data_<data_type>)
    │   ├── halfmission-2 (same filenames as data_<data_type>)
    └── reobs_planck (same filenames as templates_<template_type>, used if sub_planck=True for null tests)

The required types of maps are data, signal simulations, noise simulations, and masks.
Each map should have a tag, which is used consistently across these different map types.
This would typically be a frequency or some subset of detectors.
For example, SPIDER has two tags: ``95`` and ``150``.

Further subsetting of the data, ie., by time splits, is done through use of the ``<data_subset>>`` directories.
These should contain independent subsets of data, as they are used to construct cross-spectra.
For example, SPIDER has four subsets, labeled ``1of4``, ``2of4``, etc, to contain maps from every fourth set of interleaved ten-minute chunks.

For each map tag and for each data subset in your data directory, you must have at least one (but generally at least 100, for reasonable statistics) maps in your signal and noise directories.
These have the same directory structures, but the maps now have additional numerical tags for each realization of randomly generated signal or noise.
The tags don't have to start at 0 or be contiguous-- the code will simply look for any maps in your sim directories that has the same map tag and data_subset as what you've picked for the data and use all of them, unless you set an option to say otherwise.
The signal map directory must also contain a spectrum file containing the :math:`\ell(\ell+1)C_\ell/(2\pi)` spectra used to create the realizations in the directory.
This spectrum in used in computing the transfer function.

One mask is required per map tag.
These files begin with ``mask_map_`` instead of ``map_``.

Optional inputs are described in :ref:`Algorithm<Algorithm: Step by Step>`.

Non-Map Data
............

The other data you'll need to provide are your beam window functions and the band centers of the input maps (if fitting for foregrounds).
These are specified in a config file, an example of which is in `config_example.ini <https://github.com/annegambrel/xfaster/blob/main/example/config_example.ini>`_.

Beams can be specified either with a simple FHWM, if using a Gaussian beam model, or with an ell-by-ell beam window function, stored in a ``.npz`` file.
The ``.npz file`` should contain a dictionary with a key for each map tag.
The beams can be an :math:`\ell` -length vector, or a 3 :math:`\times \ell` - shape array if different beams are desired for Stokes I/Q/U.

Running the code
----------------
An example of a script to run XFaster can be found in `xfaster_example.py <https://github.com/annegambrel/xfaster/blob/main/example/xfaster_example.py>`_.
This script points to where the data lives, the tags used to fill in options in your file structure tree, what config file to use, and lots of other options you can give to the code.
These aren't all the options-- the API reference for :py:func:`xfaster.xfaster_exec.xfaster_run` contains descriptions of all the arguments you might wish to use.

After setting up your config file and setting the options in your submit script, you then need to decide if you're submitting this to a cluster (``xfaster_submit``) or running it in your current environment (``xfaster_run``).
The example script has both options available.
If submitting to a grid, additional submit options are required, and these are included in the arguments passed to ``xfaster_submit``.

Reading the outputs
-------------------
As steps of the algorithm are completed, intermediate outputs are written to disk in the form of ``.npz`` numpy dictionary files.
If a run is interrupted for any reason, it can be restarted from the previously completed checkpoint.
The files written to disk are:

* ``files.npz``

  * All specifiers to indicate which maps files are used

* ``masks.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of the masks

* ``kernels.npz``

  * The :math:`K_{\ell\ell'}` mode-coupling kernels

* ``sims_xcorr.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of signal and noise simulation

* ``beam.npz``

  * The beam window functions, per map

* ``transfer.npz``

  * The filter transfer functions, computed per map

* ``data_xcorr.npz``

  * The cross-spectra of all the data maps

* ``bandpowers.npz``

  * The computed bandpowers

* ``likelihoods.npz``

  * The likelihoods for parameters

For a detailed overview of the various fields contained in each dictionary, see :ref:`Algorithm<Algorithm: Step by Step>`.

Whenever you want to read in some data the XFaster code wrote, you'll want to use the function ``load_and_parse``.
This includes all the files detailed in the list above.
You can then look through keys, where the dictionaries are all structured as ``main field name`` -> ``spectrum type`` -> ``map/cross spectrum``.

In the last category, cross spectra are indicated with a colon, so if I had two maps tagged as ``90`` and ``150`` that I'm inputting the algorithm, the spectrum fields I should find are ``90:90``, ``150:150``, and ``150:90`` (crosses are in alphabetical error, as they are read as strings).
Here, we have the two map auto-spectra first, and then the cross between them.
If there are multiple maps with the same tag but that use different <<data_subsets>> as described in :ref:`Maps<Maps>` above, these will be assigned an additional numerical tag, so you might have something like ``90_0:90_1`` for the cross between map 90 in data_subset1 and data_subset2.

Below, we show how to load up some bandpowers, error bars, and a transfer function.

.. code-block:: python

    import xfaster as xf

    bp = xf.load_and_parse("bandpowers_test.npz") # where the majority of useful stuff is
    ee_bin_centers = bp["ellb"]["cmb_ee"] # weighted bin centers
    ee_specs = bp["cb"]["cmb_ee"] # estimated CMB spectra
    ee_errs = bp["dcb"]["cmb_ee"] # estimated CMB error bars
    spec_cov = bp["cov"] # Nspec * Nbin square covariance matrix
    ee_transfer_90_1 = bp["qb_transfer"]["cmb_ee"]["90_1"] # transfer function using the same bins


And that covers the basics!
